Shaking with exhaustion I stumble to a mirror to observe what at first sight appears to be a giant laceration in my side.

I'd just got my first ever piece of freehand permanent body art - and this glimpse, after 10 hours in the tattoo studio, was the first time I had seen the design that had been inked down the length of my body.
My 'surprise' tattoo traumatised me... but now I love it.
Girl volunteers for 'surprise' tattoo by freestyle artist, admits it was 'emotional'.

Because this wasn't just any tattoo. It was a freehand piece by Jay Freestyle, real name Jonathan Hong, the tattoo artist making waves with his unique watercolour and graphic style.

A line from his website - give me a piece of your skin and I'll give you a piece of my soul - hints at his creative methodology.

Aside from some general theme and colour inspiration, Jay creates every detail of your tattoo on the spot, revealing it at the end as a finished result - so you're essentially getting a surprise tattoo.

Normally this kind of work would be done over the course of a fortnight but we only had one day, at Dermadonna Tattoo in Amsterdam, to complete it, and it was challenging for us both.

I had been lying in that studio for 10 hours, six of which were spent tattooing my ribs, waist and hip.

By the fourth hour I was wailing uncontrollably and by hour five and six I screamed with pain as the splashes of painterly ink were scratched on to my upper ribs.

Jay's unique working style requires militant concentration. He was all but unaware of my extreme agony and just wanted to carry on. He wouldn't even let me see it until it was finished.
He was all but unaware of my extreme agony and carried on until the design was finished.
Aside from a large breakfast I'd survived on a can of Coke and some apricots all day. It was 9pm.

When I finally saw it in the mirror I was preconditioned to be overwhelmed. Although I hid it, inside I was pretty angry with Jay for hurting me. Of course this is just how these things go but it was a first for me and I was in unbelievable pain for the best part of two hours.

And now I was looking at the result.
I was exhausted and preconditioned to be overwhelmed when I first saw it.
I didn't expect it to look so dark and I was taken aback by its vast size.

Of course I knew it would be beautiful, unique, totally tailored to me etc - but all I could do in the first instant was pick on 'imperfections'. Seeing asymmetry when I expected symmetry, finding details on my body I never agreed to.

But soon enough I got over my instinct to find fault and saw it for what it is - an incredible piece of work which fits harmoniously with my figure.

He stuck to the same colour scheme and theme that we had planned, though with the details he'd gone off on his own whim as he felt it.
A year on Deni loves her tattoo with all her heart and Jay and she are good friends 
Utlimately though, I knew the score before I lay down. He is a freehand artist in front of whom I willingly put my torso.

I get a new compliment about it from every person I meet who sees it. They find another element of the work to marvel at which I hadn't even considered.

A year on I love my tattoo with all my heart, every part of it. And Jay and I are good friends.
